# Forward

_September 2025, fifteen years after this book begins_

I'm going to keep this honest. 

It would be a disservice to the reader to mask names, faults, and situations in order to keep from showing acquaintances, friends, and even myself in a bad light. We're commanded to follow Jesus, confessing our sins, and trusting him to save us. 

So consider this a confession.




## Word Dump




I'm a typical man, just like anyone else, with common sins. I've toyed with the idea of changing names to keep from pointing out the dumb things they've done. What I've done too. To honor privacy. But if I did, some of the authenticity of what I share might be lost, and the context of what I do and have done would be muted, and this whole story would be boring. 

And let's be real, we all need some salt in our lives.

I will paint some characters in this book as they were. I don't mean to smear the reputations of anyone who's depicted here, and I hope they've changed for the better over the last decade and a half. I've made my own mistakes.

We're told all the time in the scriptures to confess our sins. I'll be pretty open about my struggles with sin in here. My faith is not in my own merits, but in Jesus Christ's.

With that in mind, let me introduce myself, and who I was as I arrived at the events in this book.

I was born in 1986 in Kansas City, Missouri, the eighth of 11 children of Charles Perry Andrews III and Cosette Woodbury Andrews. My dad converted to the Chruch of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints when he was 14, and my mom was the daughter of a Patriarch and Sealer Frank Alan Woodbury and Fern Stoddard.

When I was growing up, nothing seemed out of the ordinary to me, but as I've grown up, gotten to know more people, and have started my own family, I'm amazed at my parent's unfailing discipline at getting us all to read scriptures pretty much every day, that we had family prayer at the beginning of each day, and at the end, and that my parents prayed together each morning. 

We walked into their room in the mornings and often saw them knelt down together praying. For a while. They really prayed.

We had Family Home Evening religiously every monday night. It was the source of contention more than once, when siblings had to skip out on concerts with friends, or when I declined playing in the Youth Symphony on Mondays for a long while.

When I was nine years old, after watching a lot of my older siblings make some really bad choices in junior high and highschool, my mom decided to homeschool my brother Charles (then 12 years old), me, and my sister Aurelia, to try and keep us "from losing our self respect in junior high."

I only had another eight years with her. I'm so glad she made that choice, and that I got to spend a lot of time with her at home, learning from her.

Part of our daily schooling was reading scriptures with my mom 