# 1: Preparation

People always told me to prepare for a mission. Don't start reading scriptures when you go to the Missionary Training Center. Read now. Don't pray when you get there. Pray now.

I always read the scriptures as a kid. We read as a family every day, be it at 5:30 AM before seminary for siblings, 7:00 AM after they got home, or just whenever it could get squeezed in.

I started reading a chapter of scripture every night as I got ready for bed when I was about ten or eleven years old. It's just "what you do," so it never felt like "preparation for a mission".

It's not been until now, 16 years after I got home, that I'm starting to realize just what a difference good preparation did, and not just for me - I saw it in other guys who were there too.

Last year, at a family gathering, I was chatting with a cousin's spouse, and we got talking about missions. I got talking about how my companions made such a difference in what happened in an area, how Elder Pimentel or Elder Coburn could just show up in an area I'd been in for a long while, and _suddenly_, on the same day, things would just start _happening_. 

On the way home from the bus stop, you get stopped by a guy in the street, asking where the church is, because he wants to get baptized. How you get caught in a freak rainstorm and while taking shelter under an awning, have a woman open the door and ask you to come and teach her, because she's been waiting to speak to the missionaries for so long, and now, here you are. What an experience with casting out devils had been like.

There were many stories I shared, and I assumed he had been a great missionary with similar experiences, but I saw on his face, that he had never experienced the same.

I realized that some arrive prepared for a great experience, and experience just that. But most do not.

I realized that my experiences were remarkable, and not typical.

I realized that preparation determines everything.

## I Knew What I Believed

My journey to get ready for a mission was long one. Where most guys just left when they turned nineteen, I think only one of the Andrews boys managed to be ready so fast. Ben, myself, and Morgan all took our dear sweet time getting out.

My senior year in high school marked a lot of changes in life that would shake me off course, and put me into a lot of valuable life experience which would shape me into who I am now.

In October 2003, my mom died of breast cancer after fighting it for about three years. When I was about thirteen, I recall my mom asking if I was going to serve a mission, and me, thinking that circumstances might be different in the future, told her "I don't know, I'll have to decide later, when I know more."

"Decide now."

So I decided. I would serve a mission.

She homeschooled Charles, me, Aurelia, and had begun to school Morgan as well. Anna was five when my mom passed, and hadn't had a chance to start schooling.

My mom had decided that she hated watching my oldest siblings go through the gauntlet of puberty in public school, and getting involved with drugs, etc. early on, so she would homeschool us, starting when I was about to begin fourth grade.

Part of our curriculum was a whole lot of self management in standard learning areas (I managed to do anything I could to avoid math), checklists, cleaning, and scripture study. As a kid, we had family scripture reading and prayer more consistently than most people are with their medications. We woke up in the morning and did it first thing, to accommodate the teenagers' busy schedules.

We would study after they got home from seminary at the stake center at 7 AM. When their schedules filled up at 7, we got up at 5:30, before they left for seminary. When only homeschooled teenagers were home and there were fewer activities, we read after seminary again, and then cleaned the house.

And when she began homeschooling us, on top of that morning family scriptures ritual, we also studied the scriptures with her.

These were formative moments. Whilst our family scripture study usually consisted of me wrapped in a blanket on the couch, waiting to be told to read until my dad stopped me and passed the turn to someone else, (where I would just zone out again), these study sessions with my mom were during the wakeful times of the day, and my mom would stop us, and explain.

Reading Nephi's vision beginning in 1 Nephi 11, she explained the history of each thing we were reading about. Reading in Doctrine and Covenants a year or two later, she explained the second coming of Jesus. I don't remember everything, but I do remember the times when as she explained, I could see what these scriptures meant to her.

And they meant a lot to her.

I remember things she taught us in family home evenings on Monday nights.

"Work isn't fun, but it's not boring. Let's clean the house."

"I want to learn all the verses of _I Wonder When He Comes Again_ as a family." She cried during the second verse. I've never forgotten it, and it's one of my favorite songs to this day, because I understand the words "I wonder when he comes again, will I be ready there, to look upon his loving face, and join with him in prayer? Each day I'll try to do his will and let my light so shine, that others seeing me may seek for greater light divine. And when that blessed day is here, he'll love me and he'll say, 'you've served me well my little child. Come into my arms to stay.'"

There were other lessons that were important.

"In the temple, we learn key words, signs, and tokens that allow us to pass by guardian angels to get into God's presence. Without them, you will be stuck at the gate."

During the last year of her life, as it was getting pretty apparent that she was going to die, I was laying on my bed in my room across from hers, and I heard her praying out loud in desperation, not for her, but for us, her children. She didn't know I could hear. It seemed that her greatest concern as she left this life, was for her kids.

"_I_ want to raise my children!"

As her strength began to fade, and her pain increased, she would sit on a wingbacked chair a lot to support her head. Or, she would roll a towel and keep it around her neck for support.

About a month and a half before her passing, she and my dad went for a last ditch effort at natural healing, and they flew to the Hippocates Institute in Florida for six weeks to see if she could get on a better trajectory.

The night before they left, my dad gave me a father's blessing. In it, he said, "If you seek god with all your heart, you shall ever, surely, find him." It was a blessing meant for the next six weeks, where as the oldest kid at home, and the only one with a drivers license, I would be responsible for caring for my younger three siblings - shopping, getting to seminary, sharing with Aurelia in making meals, etc., but I have never forgotten those words, and in the two decades since, I have put them to the test again, and again.

And I can say with confidence, that I have found God.

He is with me.

The day that my mom was scheduled to come home, she did not. On their layover flight from Atlanta, my mom went anemic on the plane, and she was taken to the hospital in an ambulance. The air pressure changes wouldn't allow her to fly home, so my dad drove her 830 miles home in a rental car.

They arrived late in the evening on Sunday night, if I recall correctly.

I've never spoken about it.

But maybe I can write it.

A few of my older siblings lived within twenty minutes of home. Ben and I had a plan for how we could get mom up the stairs, we were going to have some beet/barley grass/apple juice ready for her when she got home, and we got my parents' room ready.

As the car pulled up, I was excited to see her again, but I was not prepared for the state she was in.

She couldn't focus her eyes on us, her face was gaunt, emaciated... She couldn't really speak.

We got her into a wheel chair and took it inside. I think Laura got her juice ready, and it hit me hard how close she was to death, as she took a sip through a straw with lifeless eyes, and the dark beet juice wavered up and down in the straw before finally making it to her mouth briefly and spilling, staining her shirt.

Ben and I carried her up the stairs and got her into bed.

As I went to bed that night, it was pretty clear that her time with us was nearly gone.

We spent the next day arranging hospice with the Bishop and Relief Society President, and I think we might have shopped for a casket, I can't recall perfectly.

She was rarely coherent the next day. She was talking to her dad. She was saying things about not being ready, or that she needed to be here for her kids.

Charles called from his mission in Paraguay to talk to her (in those days, missionaries only called home on Christmas and Mother's day). She was in such pain, and struggling with her body, that all she managed to get out was "I love you," and Ben and I sang her _Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide_ before going to bed.

My dad woke me around 4 AM to let me know that she was gone.

Laura, Morgan, Aurelia, Anna, and I went into the master bedroom where she lay, and had a family prayer before dad called the police to let them know, and they came to pronounce her dead.

Ruth, Ben, and Erin came over to be there as well. At this point, it was about 5:30. I wouldn't be able to sleep anyways, so I went to Seminary as usual. I attended class without saying anything about it, and I'm glad I was there. By the time seminary was over, word had spread, and many of my friends came to comfort me. I'm glad that I was there, and saw what compassion teenagers are capable of.

I was a seventeen year old boy. I saw other people go through similar things, and they suffered. Not all of them made it through as well as I did, and I wish they could have.

I don't know what to say, but I can only surmise that it is due to the foundation my parents laid for me, and as my father had said, "if with all your heart you truly seek him, you shall ever, surely, find him."

I made it through, in the end. The next three years were a time of darkness, of struggles, of loneliness, and of answers coming in _slowly_. I had heard a lot of people say that in trials, don't ask "why me?", but "what does Heavenly Father want me to learn from this?"

It turns out that those answers don't come easy, or fast.

"And now, I, Moroni [...] would show unto the world that faith is things which are hoped for and not [recieved]; wherefore, dispute not because ye [recieve] not, for ye receive no [answers] until after the trial of your faith."

The trial of my faith was to last for nearly three years.

## Building Faith In Jesus Christ

My mom's passing opened my eyes to a lot of things as a young man, like what matters and what doesn't, life is short, and the overwhelming and crushing power of loneliness. But more importantly, it taught me Jesus' power to get past all of that.

### Faith in Jesus' Power Over Death

### Faith in Jesus' Power to Cleanse

### Faith in Jesus' Power of Peace

### Faith in Jesus' Power in the Priesthood







As a Millennial whose youth spanned the 80s, 90s, and beginning 00s in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, there's a lot of church lingo whose meanings were kind of lost, reassigned, or straight up ambiguous.

"Testimony" is one of those.

From the time I was twelve to the time I was sixteen, I was really preoccupied with how to "get a testimony."

I had gone through years and years of every first sunday of the month consisting of watching people get up and "bear testimony". It seemed to mostly consist of weird stories about steroid medication causing chocolate cravings and it being a "real trial", or getting up to tell about how hard a time they'd had while getting through a life threatening car crash or illness, and being grateful for god, etc., and that the church was true.

If that's what a testimony is, how did you even get one?

People in church said you had to get your own testimony, and that you could just borrow one. You couldn't rely on your parents' testimonies. Heck, there was a whole parable about ten virgins that kind of illustrated the point.

It was on my mind pretty frequently - how and when would I get one?

And then I got an answer at Stake Youth Conference.

In 2002 the Nauvoo temple was dedicated. Our stake's assigned temple was in St Louis, four hours away, but Nauvoo was five hours away. Our stake rented out five greyhound buses and shipped us all to Nauvoo for stake youth conference to do baptisms for the dead, and to experience the church history of the area.

About halfway through the conference our stake president, President Christensen, took small groups into an ampitheater in the woods to teach us more personally.

He told us about testimony. He said to think of all our experiences feeling the holy ghost. "That is your testimony."

I remembered going to the St Louis temple dedication sitting next to my brother Charles and singing _The Sprit of God, Like a Fire is Burning_ and both feeling the Holy Ghost. I remembered when Ben came home from his mission three years earlier, and there being something special about him and the way he taught. I remembered hearing him teach the Teachers Quorum about the King Follett sermon and our place in the plan of salvation, and our relationship to God the Father, and how I prayed that night in a different way than I ever had. I remembered feeling the Holy Ghost confirm the words of the Book of Mormon to me as I read when I was eleven and twelve. God had heard and answered many of my prayers over the years. These things were my experiences, and there was power there.

This is the "testimony" I had heard so much about.

But I still didn't have a testimony of Jesus Christ or a full faith in him.





# Word Dump


I knew that God was real based on my own experiences. I knew that he answered prayers based on my own experiences. I knew that the Book of Mormon was true based on my own experiences.

This was testimony.

I had a testimony of God the Father and my


When I was sixteen, our stake did a Youth Conference in Nauvoo. We rented five greyhound buses and took a 6 hour trip to Nauvoo to spend time there, and to have us all do baptisms for the dead in the newly dedicated temple there.

My most memorable experience there was when the stake president took some small groups into an ampitheater in the woods, and taught us.





I had gon through years and years of every first sunday of the month consisting of watching people get up and "bear testimony". It seemed to mostly consist of weird stories about steroid medication causing chocolate cravings and it being a "real trial", or getting up to tell about how hard a time they'd had while getting through a life threatening car crash or illness, and being grateful for god, etc., and that the church was true.

If that's what a testimony is, how did you even get one?

I was kind of worried about it as a twelve year old, and was for several years.

As a Millennial who's youth in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in the 80s, 90s, and beginning 00s, there's a lot of church lingo whose meanings are kind of lost, reassigned, or straight up ambiguous. "Trials" and "Tribulations" are included in that list.

Most of my frame of reference was people in Fast and Testimony meeting getting up for 15 minutes and spewing a report of everything bad that had happened to them for the last month amid a lot of tears, and calling it trials and tribulations.

I've since experienced that having a legit test of your faith, vs just a hard time might sometimes overlap, but they aren't quite the same thing.

### Finishing up High School

Fortunately, I was still at home. Though my dad was grieving silently and honestly doing a great job and not letting life fall completely apart. He was strong and silent, and I think we all needed some love.

For the next long while, I struggled with my relationship with my dad. I thought he was so aloof. So critical.

We always ate the same food, and it didn't seem to have any taste. It wasn't all bad, and of course there were moments of happiness, but as a whole, it just seemed a dark time.


As a teenager, I had my hear set on turning myself into a great cellist, and would pray about it al the time - "Heavenly Father, please help me to know if I should be a musician." I prayed about it all the time, and it turns out, I couldn't take a hint, until God shut that down hard at an audition at the Curtis Institute of Music in 2004, when I was 17 years old.

